BGP (Border Gateway Protocol) templates on Cisco devices are used to simplify the configuration and management of BGP peering sessions. BGP templates allow 
network administrators to define a standard set of configuration parameters for BGP peering sessions and apply them to multiple peers simultaneously.

BGP templates consist of a set of predefined configuration parameters that are applied to BGP sessions. These parameters include things like the local AS 
number, the neighbor IP address, the peer group, and the route map.

Using BGP templates on Cisco devices has several benefits. Firstly, it reduces the chance of errors in the configuration of BGP peering sessions, since the 
template can be applied to multiple peers at once, rather than configuring each peer individually. Secondly, it saves time by simplifying the process of 
configuring BGP peering sessions. Finally, it provides a consistent configuration across all BGP peers, making troubleshooting and maintenance easier.

To create a BGP template on a Cisco device, you need to define the standard set of configuration parameters you want to apply to your BGP peering sessions. 
You can then create a template that includes these parameters, and apply the template to each BGP peer or peer group as needed.

To create a BGP template on a Cisco device, you need to define the standard set of configuration parameters you want to apply to your BGP peering sessions. 
You can then create a template that includes these parameters, and apply the template to each BGP peer or peer group as needed.

Here is an example of how to configure a BGP template on a Cisco device:

router bgp 65001
 template peer-template
  remote-as 65002
  description BGP Peer Template
  route-map rm-in in
  route-map rm-out out
 neighbor 10.1.1.1
  use neighbor peer-template
 neighbor 10.1.1.2
  use neighbor peer-template
!


In this example, the template named "peer-template" is defined with the remote AS number, description, and route maps. The template is then applied to two BGP 
neighbors with the "use neighbor" command. This configuration simplifies the configuration process for multiple peers by applying the template 
with a single command, rather than configuring each neighbor individually.
