Both .stdout and .stdlines are used to retrieve the output of a command as a list of strings in Ansible, 
but they are used in slightly different contexts.

.stdout is an attribute that is used to retrieve the output of a command as a single string. 
When you use .stdout, Ansible concatenates all of the lines of output into a single string, 
with each line separated by a newline character (\n). 
This can be useful when you want to perform string operations on the output, 
such as searching for a particular pattern or extracting specific fields from the output.

.stdlines, on the other hand, is an attribute that is specifically designed to return the output 
of a command as a list of strings, where each element of the list corresponds to a line of the output. 
This can be useful when you want to process the output line by line, 
such as when you want to filter or transform the output using the various filters available in Ansible (e.g., the regex_search or map filters).

In general, if you just need to retrieve the output of a command and don't need to perform any special processing on the output, 
you can use either .stdout or .stdlines. However, if you need to process the output in a more structured way, 
such as by filtering or transforming it using the various Ansible filters, then it is often more convenient to use .stdlines 
to retrieve the output as a list of strings, since this allows you to process the output line by line.


The .stdout attribute always returns the output of a command or module as a string, 
regardless of whether the command generates a single line or multiple lines of output.

The .stdlines attribute, on the other hand, always returns the output of a command or 
module as a list of strings, where each string corresponds to a single line of output. 
If the command generates a single line of output, then .stdlines will return a list with a single string. 
If the command generates multiple lines of output, then .stdlines will return a list of strings, with one string per line of output.
